I'd like to rearrange my advice pages into a  more book-like format with chapters rather than just two big pages.

How to redirect
https://css-tricks.com/redirect-web-page/

Quickstart (if you don't expand what's now in strategy too much, it really is a pretty quick guide to getting started)
    Most important questions
    What should I be doing?
        Get more and bigger ships that your opponent
        Win skirmishes by capturing and overpopulating
        Surround your opponent's home with ships
        Move a bunch of ships to their home in a winning combination (see chapter "Late game")
    Keep an eye on your opponent
    Keep an eye on the bank
    Things to check for every turn
        Maybe this could go in "middle game," but all-in attacks can happen pretty early
    Red flags
Early game
    Choosing your homeworld
        Small universes (the jury is out on whether first player gets a big advantage)
    Third turn
    Early bank management
        Don't get frozen out
        Instafreeze
    Mirroring
    Investment
Middle game
    Starts approximately when there's a yellow big enough to send something the other homeworld
    Defending and invading colonies
        In a large universe game, you generally only need one near colony but two far colonies (for stockpiling your Doomsday machine parts)
        What do you do if a colony is invaded?
        Capture the invaders if you can
        Consider catastrophe
        Consider counter attack
        Consider yellow sacrifice to get everyone out (sacrificing a yellow in that system reduces the number of refugees)
    Get there first with the most
    in a large universe game, you generally only need one near colony but two far colonies (for stockpiling your doomsday machine parts)
    Don't be the one without a gun
    Red anywhere is red everywhere
    Material advantage
    Factory
    Keep a large at home
Late game (winning)
    Starts approximately when both players have a large-defended colony adjacent to the enemy home
    Doomsday machines, fast and slow
        Plan for complete, swift victory
    Direct assault
    Demolition fleet
    Bluebird
Miscellaneous
    Should I call catastrophe?
    Etiquette
        Novice vs expert
        Don't move while your opponent is distracted
        Consider stating what action you are taking to avoid confusion
            (A trade and sacrifice start the same way, with a ship going to the bank)
        Don't restart your turn too much
        Perform star-towing slowly and carefully
Puzzles
Homeworlds timeline
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X74CeD9aKck
    site:http://www.wunderland.com/ icetraders
    Andy Looney writes the short story "Icehouse" describeing a game played with pyramids (1987)
    John Cooper invents Icehouse (1989)
    People start to invent other games for the pieces (1996)
    John Cooper invents Icetraders 1998
    Icetraders shipped as part of "Icehouse: The Martian Chess" set (1999)
    Martian Chess Set wins Origins award for best abstract board game (2000)
    John Cooper turns Icetraders into Homeworlds (2001)
    Aaron Dalton develops the website Super Duper Games for playing many games by correspondence. This is the first organized online incarnation of Homeworlds. (2005)
        http://wunderland.com/WhatsOld/2005/WN.10.13.05.html
    Two-player "Binary" Homeworlds included in 3HOUSE rulebook (2007)
    Andy begins awarding physical medals to people who beat him at Homeworlds (2015)
        http://new.wunderland.com/2015/05/05/the-i-beat-andy-medal/
    Homeworlds included in Pyramid Arcade (2016)
    Great Homeworlds Tournament (2017)
    Homeworlds gets standalone box in Pyramid Quartet (2020)
    "thelast19digitsofpi" develops the website Homeworlds Live: the first system for LIVE online play   that enforces the rules (2020)
    The website Board Game Arena officially releases a Homeworlds implementation that supports both correspondence and live play (2022)
The Rules
Glossary


Talk about colonies under strategy:

Talk about mirroring
    It's pretty common, especially if players have the same colors in their HWs.
    In fact, it's often the best choice for second player.

Puzzle
Something involving a blue sacrifice, since those are rare.
    How about, your opponent has just moved some ships into your home. You don't have a large red,
    but you could sacrifice a b2 to turn two of your home larges red. They could attack those, but then you can cat them,
    and they'd be spending their only red to do so leaving them helpless and you with the advantage.

Puzzle
A Doomsday machine where the phases are necessarily intermingled
    For example, you move in two larges of the star colors to start with
    you then cat whichever one they capture
    then you cat the other one
    The hard part will be making it so no other move order would work

Puzzle
A direct assault that fails because a monopoly is lost in the process.
    South has near-monopoly on red.
    North's only red is their large red at home.
    South wants to direct assault.
    It should be that North will clearly win unless South invades immediately
    North must defend by getting a medium ship (first move, the puzzle move).
    South moves two r3's to North's home
    North attacks an r3
    South sacrifices r2 elsewhere to attack two r3s
    Now that an r2 has been freed up, North trades the medium ship for red and destroys the invaders.
    It ought to be the case that South does not have any invasion opportunities immediately after.

More puzzles involving gaining a material advantage rather than just winning.
Also, more puzzles where the solution is not a sacrifice, catastrophe, or home invasion.

Puzzle
    You invade a colony where your large ship can be attacked, but only if your opponent sacrifices their only red ship (an r2). If they were to defend that way, you could launch a direct assault on their home, so they have to retreat or lose ships instead.


